Welcome back in this video we will learn how to install rabbitMq.
Q If you go to the home page of the git repository for this code you'd see something called installing
tools.
So if you click the link you'd go to a section where you would see all the instructions that are needed
to install all the tools for this specific course in the installing tool section you'll see a subsection
for installing a rabbitMQ.
before you install rabbitMQ one of the important things that you'd need to understand is you'd need
Erlang So to be able to run rabbit MQ you'd need to install Erlang.
You would first discuss the steps in installing rabitMQ On Windows before discussing the steps on
a Mac.
So let's get started with installing rabbitMQ on windows.
You can take this link which is present in here rabbitMQ dot com install Windows dot html
so if you.
take that link you'd have exe links to install rabbitMQ.
But before that you need to install Erlang.
So once you go to this link you can see a link down here saying Erlang for Windows installer.
If you open that in a new window you can get the latest installation for Erlang.
So depending on whether you are on a 32 bit Windows or 64 bit Windows you can choose the appropriate
binary file download it and install installing it should be a cakewalk.
There is nothing very complex in installing Erlang as such.
So just download the exe double click it and follow the steps which come up and you should be able
to easily install Erlang on Windows and once you do that you can go back to the rabbit MQ page that will
launch it up from here so this is the URL rabbitMQ install Windows that the page we launched up earlier.
So you go there and you can download the installation for Windows systems you can either use this one
or this one.
This is the one from git hub and this from bin tray.
You can use either of them and you can go ahead and install I mean the installation would be straightforward
you just need to choose a folder and you'd be able to straightforwardly install rabbit MQ.
Once you installed rabbit MQ and Erlang on windows you would see that rabbit MQ by default would be running
as a background servies.
And you can control the rabbit MQ service from the start menu.
If you have any problems with the installation then you can watch this video which is linked in here.
So in the windows section there is a video here.
YouTube.com.
Watch this specific video.
If you have any problem with installing rabbit MQ on Windows.
Now let's move on to installing rabbit MQ On Mac on Mac we recommend using home brew and that's the link
which is provided in here before you install the server.
Make sure that you have the latest version of Brew So you just need to use the command Brue update and
after that you need to install the rabbit MQ by just executing this command brew install rabbit MQ.
Once you install the  rabbit MQ server you can launch it up by slash usr slash local slash sbin slash rabbit MQ
hyphen server that's the command you'll see on the screen right now so slash usr slash local slash
sbin one of the things you can do is you can add this folder
to your bash profile.
You might want to add this folder to your bash profile as it is shown in here and then you can just
use the command Rabbitt MQ hyphen and server to launch it up.
I would take the option of slash usr slash local slash sbin slash rabbit mq server and launch it up.
This would launch up the rabbit MQ server if you're on Mac OK.
That's all there is to installing rabbit MQ.
The important thing is the prerequisite.
Erlang.
So make sure that you install Erlang before you install rabbit MQ.
If you are in Windows you would start with this link.
If you are on Mac you would start with this link.
Make sure that you have rabbit MQ installed and it's up and running as a service on Windows or by using
the command that we show here on Mac in the next step.
We would start using rabbit MQ to add functionality to our Micro servies until then bye bye.